---
layout: case
title: "Subdomain Takeovers"
excerpt: "Subdomain Takovers via CNAMES or A records pointing to Azure, AWS, GitHub or unregistered domains"
author: Martin van Wingerden
lead: Lennaert Oudshoorn
status : Open
researchers:
- Martin van Wingerden
-cves: n/a
product: Azure, AWS, GitHub, etc
-versions: n/a
recommendation: "Cleanup unused DNS records"
-workaround: n/a
start: 2022-02-04
end:
timeline:
- start: 2022-02-04
  end:
  event: "First DIVD scan of CNAMES of .NL domains pointing to unregistered domains"
- start: 2022-02-09
  end:
  event: "First scan of CNAMES of .BE domains"
- start: 2022-02-14
  end:
  event: DIVD sends out a first batch of notifications.
---
## Summary

Subdomain takeovers do not only allow the attacker to publish content on the targets website, but in some case it will also allow reading (session) cookies, perform other attacks such as cross-site scripting or even trick password managers.

Subdomain takeovers typically occur when a CNAME is still pointing to a service which is no longer active, or in some cases because a typo was made while creating the CNAME. Note however, that even when using A / AAAA records you could, in certain cases, still be vulnerable to subdomain takeovers.

Since 2014 subdomain takeovers have been growing problem. Due to the increased adoption of cloud this is also not a problem that will go away easily. 

## What you can do

* First and foremost removal of the DNS records should be done in tandem with the removal of the service
* Secondly, whenever the vendors offers any security measures against you should apply them.

## What we are doing

* We are scanning the internet for vulnerable subdomain, and will attempt to notify system owners via the listed abuse contacts, `info@` and `security@`.

## Further details

The vulnerability does not work exactly the same for each service and some/most services offer some sort of security options.

### AWS S3

By creating a bucket with a domain-name, eg www.example-bucket.com and setting up a CNAME pointing to the correct region you can easily host a website. 
However, when this bucket no longer exist anyone can take over the website by creating a bucket in the correct region. 
This is especially risky when using wildcard DNS records.

### AWS Elastic Beanstalk

One case of the Elastic Beanstalk URLs is vulnerable for a subdomain takeover, this is the case where a single part exists before the region, eg: `example.eu-central-1.elasticbeanstalk.com`. In other cases (such as recent ones, where a hash occurs before region) no vulnerabilities arise, example: `example.eu-central-1.hjklfshj.elasticbeanstalk.com`

### GitHub

CNAMES pointing to any `username.github.io` are vulnerable if they are not registered and not protected. 
Please be aware that the username to which the CNAME points provides NO security, the way to protect your (sub)domain is by [verifying your custom domain at GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en/pages/configuring-a-custom-domain-for-your-github-pages-site/verifying-your-custom-domain-for-github-pages).

### Azure - App Services

(Sub)domains pointing to Azure App Services (CNAMES pointing to `something.azurewebsites.net`) can be vulnerable for subdomains takeover.
However, a protection is available, unfortunately it is not commonly used, you can [configure a domainverification-id in a DNS TXT record](https://docs.microsoft.com/nl-nl/azure/app-service/app-service-web-tutorial-custom-domain?tabs=a%2Cazurecli#2-get-a-domain-verification-id)

### Azure - Other services

Most other services don't provide additional security measure. If the service is completely removed from Azure while the CNAME is still there, subdomain takeovers are possible.

### Unregistered Domains

A special case of subdomain takeovers does not work with cloudproviders, in this case a CNAME has been created to another domain name, which is not/no longer registered, by registering this domain one could perform a takeover.

{% include timeline.html %}

## More information
* [MDN: Subdomain takeovers](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Subdomain_takeovers)
* [HackerOne: A Guide To Subdomain Takeovers](https://www.hackerone.com/application-security/guide-subdomain-takeovers)
