---
layout: case
title: "Publicly Reachable Malicious Webshells"
author: Max van der Horst
lead: Ralph Horn
status: Closed
excerpt: "DIVD is searching the Internet for publicly reachable malicious webshells."
researchers:
- Ralph Horn
- Pepijn van der Stap
- Kaj Koole
- Wessel Baltus
- Max van der Horst
cves:
- n/a
product: n/a
versions: n/a
recommendation: "Remove the indicated file from your webserver and investigate your systems for compromise."
start: 2023-01-06
end: 2023-02-15
timeline:
- start: 2023-01-06
  end:
  event: "DIVD starts sorting Project Observer data."
- start: 2023-01-19
  end: 
  event: "DIVD starts indexing common webshell locations."
- start: 2023-01-20
  end:
  event: "DIVD starts investigating automatic recognition of malicious web shells."
ips: n/a
---

## Summary

DIVD is currently scanning the Internet for commonly known malicious webshells. These webshells often serve as an initial access method and/or persistency measure for malicious actors and are usually exposed to the Internet. Having one of these web shells on your system (nearly) always means a system has been compromised. DIVD is researching ways to identify these webshells and notifying the owners of compromised servers.

## What you can do

Remove the files associated to the webshell from your server as soon as possible and start an investigation on your infrastructure to determine how the how the web shell was installed and if the threat actor is still present inside your IT infrastructure.

## What we are doing

DIVD is currently working to identify vulnerable parties and notifying these. We do this by scanning for paths that are commonly known to contain webshells and examining these pages to determine whether they are malicious. Owners of vulnerable instances receive a notification with the host information and remediation steps. 

It was decided to close this case without notifications as there was no way to reliably enough determine malicious files. 

{% include timeline.html %}

## More information

* [Imperva "What is a Web Shell?"](https://www.imperva.com/learn/application-security/web-shell/)
* [Investigating Web Shells](https://blog.gigamon.com/2022/09/28/investigating-web-shells/)
