---
layout: case
title: "Server Management Interfaces security issues" 
divd: DIVD-2022-00038
excerpt: "DIVD is researching vulnerabilities in (hardware) server management interfaces globally and notifying the owners of misconfigured services."
author: Pepijn van der Stap
lead: Pepijn van der Stap
status: Open
researchers:
- Tom Wolters
- Pepijn van der Stap
- Melvin Boers
cves: n/a
product: n/a
versions: any. For hardware it depends on the firmware shipped by the hardware vendor
recommendation: "If you received a notification of a vulnerability, patch your system with the information provided in the notification."
patch_status: n/a
start: 2022-10-08
end: 
timeline:
- start: 2022-10-08
  end:
  event: DIVD starts investigating the scope of management interfaces.
ips: n/a

---

## Summary

DIVD started looking for vulnerabilities worldwide. This effort is aimed at vulnerabilities regarding (hardware) server management interfaces. These interfaces are often exposed to the internet and are not protected by default. This makes them a target for attackers. DIVD is researching vulnerabilities in (hardware) server management interfaces globally and notifying the owners of misconfigured services.


## What you can do

* If you receive a notification, make sure the vulnerability described in that notification is patched. The notification will be sent along with a location and description of the vulnerability. If you have any questions regarding the mitigation of these vulnerabilities, feel free to reply to the email, and we'll gladly help!

IT and IT security teams should consider putting the instance on a separate network, and only allow access to it from a trusted network. This will prevent attackers from accessing the management interface from the internet.

## What we are doing

* DIVD is currently ensuring that the owners of vulnerable systems are being notified. We do this by scanning for vulnerable hosts, verifying the vulnerability and notifying the owners of these systems. If you receive an email from us regarding this case, the vulnerability has been confirmed.

{% include timeline.html %}

## More information
* [Intelligent Platform Management Interface ++ Security Best Practises](http://fish2.com/ipmi/bp.pdf)
* [VNC deep dive and Security Advice by Rapid7](https://www.rapid7.com/blog/post/2020/10/09/nicer-protocol-deep-dive-internet-exposure-of-vnc/)

