---
layout: case
title: KNXnet interfaces: secure your installation today! 
author: Pepijn van der Stap
lead: Pepijn van der Stap
status: Open
excerpt: DIVD is scanning for and notifying parties that have KNXNet interfaces accessible via the internet
researchers:
- Daan Kuiper
- Pepijn van der Stap
- Lennaert Oudshoorn
- Melvin Boers
- Koen van Hove
[//]: # (cves:) - commented out because there is no CVE for this vulnerability
[//]: # (- ) - @TODO: can these lines be removed?
product: KNXNet protocol, KNXNet/IP router/interface
versions: N/A 
recommendation: "Close the port(s) that are used for KNXNet/IP communication. If you are using a KNXNet/IP router, make sure that it is not accessible via the internet."
workaround: "If you are using a KNXNet/IP router, make sure that it is not accessible via the internet, for example by re-configuring the router to announce these routes only to the local network."
start: 2022-02-08
end:
timeline:
- start: 2022-02-08
  end:
  event: "DIVD begins to act on Computest's report about insecure (home) automation systems (KNXNet standard)"
- start: 2022-02-10
  end:
  event: "DIVD receives in depth support from Computest to further investigate the protocol and its vulnerabilities"
- start: 2022-04-01
  end:
  event: "DIVD encounters some inconveniences with the KNXNet protocol and its scanning infrastructure"
- start: 2022-06-01
  end:
  event: "DIVD starts again with the preliminary research on the KNXNet protocol"
- start: 2022-12-02
  end:
  event: "DIVD releases a first version of this case file and starts scanning for vulnerable parties"

---

## Summary

KNXNet is a protocol that is used to control home automation systems. It is used in many countries, including the Netherlands, Germany, France, and the United Kingdom. The protocol is used to control lights, heating, and other devices in a home. The protocol is also used in industrial automation systems. The protocol is used in many different ways, including via a KNXNet/IP router, which is a device that connects to a local network and allows KNXNet devices to communicate with each other.

Often, KNX is set up by a professional installer. The installer is responsible for setting up the KNXNet/IP router and for securing it. However, it is also possible to set up KNX yourself. In this case, the KNXNet/IP router is often not secured. This means that it is possible to connect to the KNXNet/IP router and to control the KNX devices that are connected to it.

After installing a KNXNet/IP router, it is possible to connect to it via a web interface. However, after the professional installer has set it up, the port should simply be closed; access it no longer needed. However, this is often not done. This means that the KNXNet/IP router is accessible via the internet. This is a problem because it is possible to connect to the KNXNet/IP router and to control the KNX devices that are connected to it.

For attackers, it is possible to connect to an interface built on top of the KNXNet protocol and to control KNX devices that are connected to it. 

This is a very serious security issue, because it means that it is possible to control devices in a home or in an industrial environment without the owner's permission; a form of unauthorized access. 

Computest made a [report](https://www.computest.nl/en/news/news-and-press-releases/homes-offices-vulnerable-unsecure-domotica/) about this issue. DIVD has been working with Computest to investigate the possibility of informing parties of security issues in their home automation systems.

We has been able to reproduce the issue and has been able to find a way to scan for vulnerable KNXNet/IP routers. We will be informing parties with insecure home automation systems about this issue, in order to help them to secure their automation systems and to prevent unauthorized access to e.g. heating systems, lights, and other devices.

## What you can do


We advise you to contact your installer to make sure that the KNXNet/IP router is no longer accessible via the internet and that the port(s) are closed.
If you set up your KNXNet/IP router yourself, we advise you to close the port(s) that are used for KNXNet/IP communication.

- As described in ISO 22510:2019 the only way to properly secure KNX devices is for the protocol to reside in your local network. Port translation is not needed after the initial setup.
- If you are using a KNXNet/IP router, make sure that it is not accessible via the internet. If you are using a KNXNet/IP router, make sure that it is not accessible via the internet, for example by re-configuring the router to announce these routes only to the local network.

## What we are doing

We are actively scanning the internet for vulnerable KNXNet/IP routers and will notify system owners via the listed abuse contacts if we find any.

{% include timeline.html %}

## More information

* [Computest report](https://www.computest.nl/en/news/news-and-press-releases/homes-offices-vulnerable-unsecure-domotica/)
* [ISO 22510:2019](https://www.iso.org/obp/ui/fr/#iso:std:iso:22510:ed-1:v1:en) 
* [Institute of Automation, Vienna University of Technology](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Daniel-Lechner-4/publication/266907095_Security_for_KNXnetIP/links/555c56b508aec5ac2232b5de/Security-for-KNXnet-IP.pdf)
* [Humboldt University of Berlin Institute of Computer Science](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Robert-Guetzkow/publication/362188042_Security_Analysis_of_the_KNXnetIP_Secure_Protocol/links/62daebc1f3acdd5dc20f30b0/Security-Analysis-of-the-KNXnet-IP-Secure-Protocol.pdf)
