---
layout: case
# Title and excerpt will be used on /cases and the RSS feed so make sure they reflect the case well
title: Victim Notification XenoRAT and PureLogs Stealer
excerpt: "DIVD is notifying victims of XenoRAT and PureLogs Stealer from information.  If you received a notification, please read the appropriate instructions carefully."
author: Hans Meuris
lead: Frank Breedijk
researchers:
- Frank Breedijk
# You can use free text here as well. E.g. to indicate that some vulnerabilities don't have CVEs assigned (yet).
cves:
- n/a
product:
- n/a
#versions:
#- All versions
#- Again one per line
recommendation: If you received a notification from us, it means that you, members of your organization, or your customers likely have had their passwords stolen or their systems infected by the infostealer. Detailed recommendations can be found below.
#patch_status: Fully patched
#workaround: n/a
status : Open
start: 2026-04-16
end:
timeline:
- start: 2026-02-14
  event: "First data is extracted from the C&C server"
- start: 2026-04-16
  event: "Case file is public and first data avaiable"
- start: 2026-05-01
  event: "Last data is harvested from the C&C server
- start: 2026-05-02
  event: "DIVD sends out the first notifications"
ips: n/a
creds: 35000
# ips is used for statistics after the case is closed. If it is not applicable, you can set IPs to n/a (e.g. stolen credentials)
# This field becomes mandatory when the case status is set to 'Closed'
---
## Summary


DIVD is doing their best to notify the victims in the various datasets.

### Datasets involved
So far we have received the following datasets:

### The datasets contain
The datasets contain stolen user data, including usernames, redacted passwords, the URL and timestamp of the last observed use, and, where available, the victim’s IP address, device (computer) name, and local user account.

### Possible impact if no action is taken
The data on its own might appear harmless or insignificant, but when combined with reused passwords, lack of MFA (Multi-Factor Authentication), or internal host and user context, it makes account takeovers, fraud, and network intrusion possible. Taking action helps protect your accounts and personal information from being misused. 

## What you can do


### I / my users are on the list now what?

Here are the steps you can take depending on your situation:


## What we are doing

As we receive more information, we will analyse them and publish more sets. Make sure you keep an eye on this space and our [CSIRT blog](/blog) or [RSS feed](https://csirt.divd.nl/feed.xml) 


## Frequently asked questions

### General

---

**Q: Is this a scam?**

A: It’s great that you’re skeptical. However, this is legit and definitely not a scam. 

---

**Q: Are you going to go after the criminals who stole my information?**

A: No, we are not. That is a matter for law enforcement. As per [article 9 of our code of conduct](https://www.divd.nl/code): `We analyze online threats, not threat actors. We are researchers and don’t serve the needs of governments or law enforcement.`

---

**Q: if you “don’t serve the needs of governments or law enforcement”, why are you cooperating with the Dutch National Police on this case?**


A: Acting on this data set is directly in line with article 3 of our [code of conduct](https://www.divd.nl/code): `Analyze databases with leaked credentials and report to the organizations or people who are compromised to take appropriate measures.`

We analyze every database we receive, including those from law enforcement. However, we do this independently, without any obligation or intention to share any specific information in return.


### Technical

---

**Q:  Do you know from which criminal operation my data was obtained?**

A: In some cases we know the name of the infostealer malware, but further details were not shared with us.

---

### Legal

**Q: You are processing my personal data without my consent, is that legal?**

A: Yes it is. Under Dutch law and European privacy regulations, we can process this data based on a so-called "legitimate interest." DIVD is a private foundation that operates under a strict [code of conduct](https://www.divd.nl/code), with the aim to make the digital world safer.

---

{% comment %}  Leave this here, so we see a timeline. {% endcomment %}
{% include timeline.html %}


## More information
