---
layout: case
title: DIVD-2021-00017 – SolarWinds N-able N-central agent vulnerabilities
divd: DIVD-2021-00017
short: DIVD recommends updating N-able to version 2021.1 HF6 or higher.
author: Hidde Smit
lead: Victor Gevers
redirect_from:
  - /DIVD-2021-00017/
status : Closed
excerpt: Vulnerabilities discovered affect multi-tenant environments.
researchers:
- Hidde Smit
- Tom Wolters
cves: n/a
product: SolarWinds N-able N-central
versions:
  - < 2021.1 HF6 (build 2021.1.6.731)
recommendation: "Update SolarWinds N-able N-central to the latest version."
patch_status: "Multi-tenant vulnerabilities are patched in 2021.1 HF6"
---

## Summary
DIVD researchers have identified two vulnerabilities in SolarWinds N-able N-central.

N-able N-central software prior to 2021.HF6 is vulnerable to:
* Agent takeover in a multi-tenant environment (NCCF-16663)
* Downloading and installing agents in a multi-tenant environment (NCCF-16662)

The NCCF numbers are bug identifiers assigned by SolarWinds. See the [release notes]( https://documentation.n-able.com/N-central/Rel_2021-1-6_HF6/N-central_2021-1-6_HF6_ReleaseNotes_en.pdf) further information.

## Technical details
Authenticated users in a multi-tenant environment can abuse these vulnerabilities.

### Agent takeover
Agents, not available to the current user, can be hijacked. Resulting in a malicious actor gaining access to the agent host with SYSTEM level access. No interaction from other tenants is needed, this vulnerability can be exploited by abusing a series of API requests.

### Downloading and installing agents from a different tenant
An authenticated user can download agents from different tenants. This causes an information leak regarding the other tenant. The agent management could be disrupted by registering a high number of agents.

## What you can do
Update N-able N-central to 2021.HF6 or higher. Check for abuse indicators, if using a multi-tenant environment where the customer is able to login.
 
## What we are doing
The Dutch Institute for Vulnerability Disclosure (DIVD) finds zero-days and reports these directly to the affected vendors.

## Timeline
| Date  | Description |
|:-----:|-------------|
| 05 July 2021 | Vulnerabilities discovered. |
| 12 July 2021 | Vendor informed. |
| 14 July 2021 | Vendor confirmed vulnerability. |
| 27 August 2021 | 2021.1 HF6 released. |
| 24 September 2021 | Vendor notified DIVD about the fix. |
