---
layout: case
title: DIVD-2021-00007 - EA Origin XSS and RCE 1-click
divd: DIVD-2021-00007
short: DIVD recommends updating the Origin client and don't click untrusted Origin URI's
author: Hidde Smit
lead: Hidde Smit
redirect_from:
  - /DIVD-2021-00007/
status : Closed
excerpt: Origin users are advised to update Origin client to the latest version
researchers:
- Hidde Smit
cves: n/a
product: Electronic Arts Origin
versions:
  - Origin client < 10.5.101
recommendation: "
Update Origin client to the latest version.
"
patch_status:         "XSS and RCE patched, Angular template injection still present"
---

## Summary
A DIVD researcher has identified three vulnerabilities in the [EA Origin](https://www.origin.com/) client.

Client software prior to 10.5.101 is vulnerable to:
* 1-click RCE through Origin URI
* 1-click XSS through Origin URI
* Template injection through Origin URI

The URI affected is "origin2".

## Technical details
This vulnerability is a tweaked variant of an already patched vulnerability (CVE-2019-11354). Because EA changed their vulnerability policy, a CVE will no longer be applied if the impacted users can solve the vulnerability by using ‘auto updating’ mechanics.

When starting a game straight from the ‘.exe’, the Origin process will be started with the following command line as example:
```Origin2://game/launch/?offerIds=0&title=example```

The command above results in Origin starting and giving a pop-up where the text ‘example’ is being reflected. Initial tests showed that HTML injection can be achieved, till a certain degree. Some characters are escaped with a backslash, mitigating most of the payloads.

Further research showed that AngularJS 1.5.11 is in use, and so a sandbox escape is needed in order to perform any form of Cross-Site Scripting (XSS). The initial CVE-2019-11354 report shows that RCE can be achieved through the usage of the function ‘Origin.client.desktopServices.asyncOpenUrl()’

In order to bypass the character escaping, a combination of HTML entity encoding and URL encoding is used. URL encoding has been performed on the ampersand characters.

An example of template injection which still works:
```origin2://game/launch/?offerIds=0&title=%26lcub;%26lcub;7%26ast;7%26rcub;%26rcub;```

A known sandbox escape technique has been used, initially discovered by Jann Horn. Applying a mix of HTML entity encoding and URL encoding results in a final RCE payload with the size of 1684 characters, which once clicked, results in the spawning of ‘calc.exe’ through the origin2 URI.

## What you can do
Update Origin client to the latest version and don't click any suspicious Origin URI's (origin and origin2).
 
## What we are doing
The Dutch Institute for Vulnerability Disclosure (DIVD) finds zero-days and reports these directly to the affected vendors.

## Timeline

| Date  | Description |
|:-----:|-------------|
| 21 April 2021 | Vulnerabilities discovered. |
| 21 April 2021 | Vendor informed. |
| 11 May 2021 | Vendor confirmed vulnerability. |
| 13 July 2021 | Notified by the vendor that XSS and RCE have been fixed.  |
