Checkpoint

---
layout: case
title: "Local File Inclusion in Check Point Security Gateway software"
author: Alwin Warringa
lead: Alwin Warringa
excerpt: "An unauthenticated local file inclusion vulnerability was present in Check Point Security Gateway software"
researchers:
- Stan Plasmeijer
- Alwin Warringa
- Koen Schagen
cves:
- CVE-2024-24919
product:
- Check Point Security Gateway
versions: 
- Security Gateways of all versions with the IPsec VPN, Remote Access or Mobile Access software blades are vulnerable.
recommendation: "Apply released hot fix as soon as possible"
patch_status: Released
status : Open
start: 2024-05-30
end:
timeline:
- start: 2024-05-30
  end:
  event: "DIVD starts researching the vulnerability."
- start: 2024-05-30
  end:
  event: "DIVD finds fingerprint, preparing to scan."

#ips: 0

---
## Summary

The Check Point Research Division discovered a vulnerability in Security Gateways with IPsec VPN, Remote Access VPN or the Mobile Access blade enabled (CVE-2024-24919). The vulnerability potentially allows an attacker to access information on Gateways connected to the Internet, with Remote Access VPN or Mobile Access enabled. 
Security Gateways of all versions with the IPsec VPN, Remote Access or Mobile Access software blades are vulnerable.

## Recommendations

Check Point released hotfixes that address this vulnerability, see https://support.checkpoint.com/results/sk/sk182336 for more information. Install this hot fix as soon as possible.

## What we are doing

DIVD is currently working to identify parties that are running a version of Check Point Security Gateway that contains this vulnerability and notify these parties. We do this by finding Checkpoint Security Gateways that are connected to the Internet and verifying the existence of the vulnerability.

{% include timeline.html %}

## More information

* {% cve CVE-2024-24919 %}
* [Checkpoint Advisory](https://support.checkpoint.com/results/sk/sk182336)
