---
layout: case  
title: "2024-00004 Global NGOs"
excerpt: "This initiative focuses on identifying and addressing vulnerabilities in the publicly accessible assets of NGOs."
author: Victor Gevers
lead: Tabitha Vogelaar
researchers:
- Alwin Warringa
- Anje Knottnerus
- Barre Dijkstra
- Bartlomiej Lizak
- Emirhan Baser
- Inanc Yigit
- Joost Grunwald
- Joris Cras
- Kees van Poeijer
- Lennaert Oudshoorn
- Luc Groot Landeweer
- Max van der Horst
- Raymond Zwarts
- Victor Pasman
- Winko Erades van den Berg
cves: n/a
product: n/a
versions: any
recommendation: "If you received a notification of a vulnerability, patch your system with the information provided in this notification."
-workaround: n/a
status: Open
start: 2023-10-04
end:
timeline:
- start: 2023-10-04
  end:
  event: "Case started"
---

## Summary
This initiative focuses on identifying and addressing vulnerabilities in the publicly accessible assets of NGOs. 

## Recommendations
After receiving a notification, it is very important that the vulnerability outlined in the correspondence is promptly addressed and remediated. The notification will provide detailed information, including the specific location and a comprehensive description of the identified vulnerability.

Please do not hesitate to reply to this email if you have any questions or need help with the mitigation process. Our team can readily offer support and guidance to ensure the vulnerability is effectively resolved.
 
## What we are doing
The Dutch Institute for Vulnerability Disclosure (DIVD) has been proactively identifying and assessing non-governmental organizations (NGOs) for potential security vulnerabilities. Our team conducts thorough scans to detect any known weaknesses within these entities. Upon identifying vulnerabilities, we promptly notify and inform the affected organizations.

These notifications are dispatched in multiple phases. The initial phase is in collaboration with Cyber Peace Institute, The Hague Humanity Hub and the The Hague Municipality and is focused on securing NGO's within The Hague. After this collaboration ends, DIVD will continue to scan the rest of the world for vulnerable assets of NGO's and notify and inform them of any vulnerabilities that are found.

{% comment %}  Leave this here, so we see a timeline{% endcomment %}
{% include timeline.html %}
 
## More information
* [Free cybersecurity support program for 200 humanitarian NGOs in The Hague](https://thehague.com/partners/en/news/free-cybersecurity-support-program-200-humanitarian-ngos-the-hague).
