---
layout: case
title: "Vulnerabilities in D-Link NAS: Backdoor and Command Injection Exploits"
author: Stan Plasmeijer
lead: Koen Schagen
excerpt: "D-Link NAS are affected by a backdoor vulnerability facilitated by hardcoded credentials and a command injection vulnerability."
researchers:
- Koen Schagen
cves:
- CVE-2024-3273
- CVE-2024-10914
product:
- D-Link NAS
versions: 
- DNS-120
- DNR-202L
- DNS-315L
- DNS-320
- DNS-320L
- DNS-320LW
- DNS-321
- DNR-322L
- DNS-323
- DNS-325
- DNS-326
- DNS-327L
- DNR-326
- DNS-340L
- DNS-343
- DNS-345
- DNS-726-4
- DNS-1100-4
- DNS-1200-05
- DNS-1550-04
recommendation: "Phase out the D-Link device or place it behind a VPN or an IP allowlist"
workaround: "None"
patch_status: "None"
status : Open
start: 2024-12-02
#end: 
timeline:
- start: 2024-12-02
  end:
  event: "DIVD starts researching the vulnerability."
- start: 2024-12-02
  end:
  event: "DIVD finds fingerprint, preparing to scan."
- start: 2024-12-02
  end:
  event: "DIVD starts scanning the internet for vulnerable instances."
#ips:
---

## Summary

Certain legacy D-Link NAS models are affected by two critical vulnerabilities: a backdoor facilitated by hardcoded credentials and a command injection vulnerability. The backdoor account, with the username "messagebus," does not require a password, allowing attackers to easily gain unauthorized access. Additionally, the command injection vulnerability lies in the account_mgr.cgi URI, where the argument name can be manipulated to execute arbitrary shell commands. Attackers who successfully exploit these vulnerabilities could execute arbitrary commands on the vulnerable devices, potentially gaining access to sensitive information, modifying system configurations, and more.

## Recommendations

These vulnerabilities impact legacy D-Link products that have reached their end-of-life ("EOL") or end-of-service-life ("EOS") status, meaning they no longer receive software updates or security patches from D-Link. As there is no patch available, it is recommended to either phase out these devices or place them behind a VPN or an IP allowlist to prevent unauthorized access. Additionally, users should ensure that these devices have the latest available firmware, update passwords frequently, and enable Wi-Fi encryption with unique passwords. It is also advised not to expose management interfaces to the internet.

## What we are doing

DIVD is currently working to identify parties that are running a vulnerable version of D-Link and to notify these parties. 

{% include timeline.html %}

## More information

* {% cve CVE-2024-3273 %}
* {% cve CVE-2024-10914 %}
* [D-Link Advisory CVE-2024-3273](https://supportannouncement.us.dlink.com/security/publication.aspx?name=sap10383)
* [D-Link advisory CVE-2024-10914](https://supportannouncement.us.dlink.com/security/publication.aspx?name=SAP10413)
